Little Girl and Maximum Sum Editorial (#5042)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/silver/cf-276C.mdx

---
id: cf-276C
source: CF
title: Little Girl and Maximum Sum
author: Rameez Parwez
---

## Explanation

Calculate the involvement of each index in the range query using a difference array technique.
To maximize the sum, sort both the array and frequency array in descending order and pair the elements of the array with their respective frequencies.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $ \mathcal{O} (N \log N)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

int main() {
	int n, q;
	std::cin >> n >> q;
	std::vector<int> arr(n);

	for (auto &x : arr) { std::cin >> x; }

	std::vector<int> freq(n + 1);
	while (q--) {
		int l, r;
		std::cin >> l >> r;
		l--;
		freq[l] += 1;
		freq[r] -= 1;
	}

	for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) { freq[i] += freq[i - 1]; }

	std::sort(rbegin(freq), rend(freq));
	std::sort(rbegin(arr), rend(arr));

> 	long long res = 0;

Reviewer: are `rbegin` and `rend` not in `std::`?

Author: my bad, it is just my habit

---
id: cf-276C
source: CF
title: Little Girl and Maximum Sum
author: Rameez Parwez
---

## Explanation

> Calculate the involvement of each index in the range query using a difference array technique.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can calculate the contribution of each index in the range query using a difference array technique.
```

To maximize the sum, sort both the array and frequency array in descending order
and pair the elements of the array with their respective frequencies.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $ \mathcal{O} (N \log N)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

int main() {
	int n, q;
	std::cin >> n >> q;
	std::vector<int> arr(n);

	for (int &x : arr) { std::cin >> x; }

	std::vector<int> freq(n + 1);
	for (int i = 0; i < q; i++) {
		int l, r;
		std::cin >> l >> r;
		l--;
		freq[l] += 1;
		freq[r] -= 1;
	}

	for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) { freq[i] += freq[i - 1]; }

	sort(rbegin(freq), rend(freq));

> 	sort(rbegin(arr), rend(arr));

Reviewer: wait how does this compile
i don't see using namespace std anywhere

Author: it compiles just fine.

Reviewer: ok just for consistency can you add the headers

Author: you mean using namespace std;

Reviewer: either put that and remove all `std::` or just add `std::` in front of the functions here

Author: it was correct the first time lol

Reviewer: `rbegin` and `rend` are missing headers

Author: added it.
 but is this really necessary, like it works just fine whether u use it or not

Author: AC: https://codeforces.com/contest/276/submission/301130003

Reviewer: yeah but it still working despite using namespace std not being there is a cause for confusion i'd rather not have

Author: okay, i will keep this in mind from next time

Author: just wondering we dont write `std::begin(arr)`  to begin with

Reviewer: ?
